README.md, before:

# Webpack4Demo

See http://jbt.github.io/markdown-editor/ for Github markdown editor.

## Installing Webpack4

- See https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/
  - npm init -y    (Sets up a package.json)
  - npm install --save-dev webpack   
  - Add /src and /dist folders
  - Add index.html
  - Add /src/index.js
  - npm install --save-dev webpack-cli
  - Add scripts section to package.json with build: webpack (npm run build)
  - Add mode: "development" to webpack.config.js; see https://medium.com/webpack/webpack-4-mode-and-optimization-5423a6bc597a
- Add HtmlWebpackPlugin; creates HTML entry point pages and scripts in /dist, with '[name].bundle.js' script defined in output.
  - npm install html-webpack-plugin --save-dev 
  - Add CleanWebpackPlugin to delete files in dist before each build
  - npm install clean-webpack-plugin --save-dev
- Add devtool "inline-source-map" to generate source maps.
- Add Webpack Dev Server to serve my app
  - npm install webpack-dev-server --save-dev 
  - Add devServer: { contentBase: './dist' }, to wepack config
  - Add "start": "webpack-dev-server --open", to script in package.json
  - npm start to run the app.
- Add hot reloading with webpack-dev-server
  - Add webpack, NamedModulesPlugin, HotModuleReplacementPlugin to wepack.config, set webpack-dev-server to hot
- Shifted webpack.config into a /webpack folder, adjust /dist path. 
- Added Typescript support
  - npm install ts-loader --save-dev
  - npm install typescript --save-dev
  - Add tsconfig file
  - Add rules and resolve for .tsx to webpack config
  - Add index.ts and swap entry point to point to it
  - Works, but ts-loader is really slow... should swap to awesome-typescript-loader...
- Added awesome-typescript-loader (ATS) for faster TS compilation
  - npm install awesome-typescript-loader --save-dev  
  - Set module loader to use awesome-typescript-loader, which requires babel
  - npm install babel-loader --save-dev
  - npm install react-hot-loader --save-dev
  - ATS 4 has an issue with Webpack 4, kills hot reloading... had to upgrade ATS to v5.0.0-1 which includes patch
  - npm install awesome-typescript-loader@5.0.0-1 --save-dev
- Git credential caching was not working, had to run git config --global credential.helper winstore
  - Had to install Git For Windows
- Add CSS loading
  - Add modules, rules for CSS
  - npm install style-loader css-loader --save-dev 
  - Also want to support splitting the CSS into its own file via extract-text-webpack-plugin
  - npm install extract-text-webpack-plugin --save-dev 
  - extract-text-webpack-plugin is not currently working with webpack 4... https://github.com/webpack-contrib/extract-text-webpack-plugin/issues/701 
  suggests using mini-css-extract-plugin
  - npm install mini-css-extract-plugin --save-dev 
- Add SCSS loading:
  - Add rules, module for SCSS
  - npm install sass-loader --save-dev
  - npm install node-sass --save-dev
- Add image file loading:
  - npm install file-loader --save-dev 
  - add rules, module for file-loader for jpg, gif, png.
  - import image on entry page (just as import "./filename.gif")
- Add fony file loading:
  - Also uses file-loader
  - Add rules, module for file-loader for various font typescript
  - Add @font-face to scss or css file.
- Add loading XML and CSV data (JSON data is supported natively)
  - npm install csv-loader xml-loader --save-dev 
  - Add rules, module for loaders for .csv and .xml file typescript
  - Had to add a typings.d.ts file with a wildcare definition for xml and csv module types.
  - Then just import * as dogs from "./dogs.xml"
- Add React
  - As per https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/react-&-webpack.html
  - npm install --save react react-dom @types/react @types/react-dom
  - npm install --save-dev source-map-loader
  - Update tsconfig.json with react and sourcemap settings
  - Add src/Hello.tsx
  - import Hello component in index.tsx
- Add Redux
  - This turned into a mess as I tried to get the latest versions of redux, react-redux, redux-thunk, etc. to 
  all play together nicely, and to get clean, simple code as a result. For example, the latest Typescript definitions
  for react-redux seem to be a) really unnecessarily complex, and b) are not compatible with react-thunk.
  - Plus, I just want the simplest possible setup for redux, without action creator libraries or side effect handlers 
  like redux-think (whch I'd like to replace with react-saga).
  - I'd also like to try ducks setup for redux, where you keep all the code for each module in one file (instead of 
  scattered acroos a bunch of different reducer, action, component, etc. folders).
  - So, back to the start... uninstalling redux, react-redux, redux-immutable-state-invariant, redux-thunk, 
  typescript-fsa.
  - I'm going to begin with aiming for something similar to this React+Saga setup: https://ohyayanotherblog.ghost.io/redux-saga-clock/, with 
  demo code at https://github.com/granmoe/redux-saga-clock-tutorial 
  - Initially, I just want a simple redux-only stopwatch app... no action creator libraries, no side-effect handlers.
  I'll add them in in subsequent commits. 
  - See https://github.com/rokoroku/react-redux-typescript-boilerplate for minimal setup... even this turned out to be 
 a mess. 
  - In the end I just put together a very basic Redux setup that just keeps an array of Widget objects in state, and allows you to 
add new widgets.
- Add React-Router
  - npm install react-router-dom --save
  - npm install @types-react @types-react-router-dom --save-dev
  - Added publicPath and historyApiFallback to webpack.config. This is so if you request a route like
  localhost:8080/thief, the request is redirected to the default page, so the JS can load then deal 
  with the routing on the clientside.
  - Wrapped example RouterExample in <BrowserRouter>
  - Created /RoutingExample
- Next up ... add Routing with Redux


  





## Things to do
- Continue through webpack sections at https://webpack.js.org/guides/
  - TSLinting
  - Development: hot module replacement (DONE) with style-loader (DONE) etc.
  - Tree shaking, minification
  - Production setup
  - Code splitting
  - Lazy loading
  - Caching, cache busting, etc.
  - Progressive web app - runs offline
- Other Stuff (aside from Wedbpack):
  - React
    - This includes compiling .tsx... see wepack config, modules, rules, .ts, uncomment // plugins: ['react-hot-loader/babel'], 
  - React-Router
  - Redux
  - Redux Dev Tools
  - Saga (rather than thunks) for side effects
  - Maybe a UI library like Bootstrap or react-semantic-ui?
  - Authentication and Authorization... support Facebook login? React-router + Auth0
  - https
  - Backend JSON storage like Cloudfire
  - Deployment/rollout tool
  - Hosting
  - Actual character generator
    - Include a version field in data so can upgrade saved characters as versions change.
  - Tests
  - Server-side rendering?
  - Accessibility
  - Internationalisation
  - After March, downgrade awesome-typescript-loader to v4.0.0 and see if still works. (had to upgrade to 5.0.0-1 to patch hot reload bug with webpack 4)
  - After March, check if can eliminate mini-css-extract-plugin... may be natively supported by webpack 4 by then

## Things Done
- Continue through webpack sections at https://webpack.js.org/guides/
  - Output: HtmlWebpackPlugin to create bundles for endpoints (without fixed names) (DONE), clean-webpack-plugin (DONE)
  - Development: source maps (DONE for dev), watch mode with webpack-dev-server (DONE), hot module replacement (DONE) 
  - TypeScript (DONE... but need to upgrade to awesome-typescript-loader because ts-loader is slow)
  - Assets: SCSS / CSS (DONE), files/images (DONE), fonts (DONE), data (xml and csv) (DONE)

Commit message:

Add Jest and TS tests. (#6)

README.md, after:

# Webpack4Demo

See http://jbt.github.io/markdown-editor/ for Github markdown editor.

## Installing Webpack4

- See https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/
  - npm init -y    (Sets up a package.json)
  - npm install --save-dev webpack   
  - Add /src and /dist folders
  - Add index.html
  - Add /src/index.js
  - npm install --save-dev webpack-cli
  - Add scripts section to package.json with build: webpack (npm run build)
  - Add mode: "development" to webpack.config.js; see https://medium.com/webpack/webpack-4-mode-and-optimization-5423a6bc597a
- Add HtmlWebpackPlugin; creates HTML entry point pages and scripts in /dist, with '[name].bundle.js' script defined in output.
  - npm install html-webpack-plugin --save-dev 
  - Add CleanWebpackPlugin to delete files in dist before each build
  - npm install clean-webpack-plugin --save-dev
- Add devtool "inline-source-map" to generate source maps.
- Add Webpack Dev Server to serve my app
  - npm install webpack-dev-server --save-dev 
  - Add devServer: { contentBase: './dist' }, to wepack config
  - Add "start": "webpack-dev-server --open", to script in package.json
  - npm start to run the app.
- Add hot reloading with webpack-dev-server
  - Add webpack, NamedModulesPlugin, HotModuleReplacementPlugin to wepack.config, set webpack-dev-server to hot
- Shifted webpack.config into a /webpack folder, adjust /dist path. 
- Added Typescript support
  - npm install ts-loader --save-dev
  - npm install typescript --save-dev
  - Add tsconfig file
  - Add rules and resolve for .tsx to webpack config
  - Add index.ts and swap entry point to point to it
  - Works, but ts-loader is really slow... should swap to awesome-typescript-loader...
- Added awesome-typescript-loader (ATS) for faster TS compilation
  - npm install awesome-typescript-loader --save-dev  
  - Set module loader to use awesome-typescript-loader, which requires babel
  - npm install babel-loader --save-dev
  - npm install react-hot-loader --save-dev
  - ATS 4 has an issue with Webpack 4, kills hot reloading... had to upgrade ATS to v5.0.0-1 which includes patch
  - npm install awesome-typescript-loader@5.0.0-1 --save-dev
- Git credential caching was not working, had to run git config --global credential.helper winstore
  - Had to install Git For Windows
- Add CSS loading
  - Add modules, rules for CSS
  - npm install style-loader css-loader --save-dev 
  - Also want to support splitting the CSS into its own file via extract-text-webpack-plugin
  - npm install extract-text-webpack-plugin --save-dev 
  - extract-text-webpack-plugin is not currently working with webpack 4... https://github.com/webpack-contrib/extract-text-webpack-plugin/issues/701 
  suggests using mini-css-extract-plugin
  - npm install mini-css-extract-plugin --save-dev 
- Add SCSS loading:
  - Add rules, module for SCSS
  - npm install sass-loader --save-dev
  - npm install node-sass --save-dev
- Add image file loading:
  - npm install file-loader --save-dev 
  - add rules, module for file-loader for jpg, gif, png.
  - import image on entry page (just as import "./filename.gif")
- Add fony file loading:
  - Also uses file-loader
  - Add rules, module for file-loader for various font typescript
  - Add @font-face to scss or css file.
- Add loading XML and CSV data (JSON data is supported natively)
  - npm install csv-loader xml-loader --save-dev 
  - Add rules, module for loaders for .csv and .xml file typescript
  - Had to add a typings.d.ts file with a wildcare definition for xml and csv module types.
  - Then just import * as dogs from "./dogs.xml"
- Add React
  - As per https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/react-&-webpack.html
  - npm install --save react react-dom @types/react @types/react-dom
  - npm install --save-dev source-map-loader
  - Update tsconfig.json with react and sourcemap settings
  - Add src/Hello.tsx
  - import Hello component in index.tsx
- Add Redux
  - This turned into a mess as I tried to get the latest versions of redux, react-redux, redux-thunk, etc. to 
  all play together nicely, and to get clean, simple code as a result. For example, the latest Typescript definitions
  for react-redux seem to be a) really unnecessarily complex, and b) are not compatible with react-thunk.
  - Plus, I just want the simplest possible setup for redux, without action creator libraries or side effect handlers 
  like redux-think (whch I'd like to replace with react-saga).
  - I'd also like to try ducks setup for redux, where you keep all the code for each module in one file (instead of 
  scattered acroos a bunch of different reducer, action, component, etc. folders).
  - So, back to the start... uninstalling redux, react-redux, redux-immutable-state-invariant, redux-thunk, 
  typescript-fsa.
  - I'm going to begin with aiming for something similar to this React+Saga setup: https://ohyayanotherblog.ghost.io/redux-saga-clock/, with 
  demo code at https://github.com/granmoe/redux-saga-clock-tutorial 
  - Initially, I just want a simple redux-only stopwatch app... no action creator libraries, no side-effect handlers.
  I'll add them in in subsequent commits. 
  - See https://github.com/rokoroku/react-redux-typescript-boilerplate for minimal setup... even this turned out to be 
 a mess. 
  - In the end I just put together a very basic Redux setup that just keeps an array of Widget objects in state, and allows you to 
add new widgets.
- Add React-Router
  - npm install react-router-dom --save
  - npm install @types-react @types-react-router-dom --save-dev
  - Added publicPath and historyApiFallback to webpack.config. This is so if you request a route like
  localhost:8080/thief, the request is redirected to the default page, so the JS can load then deal 
  with the routing on the clientside.
  - Wrapped example RouterExample in <BrowserRouter>
  - Created /RoutingExample
- Testing with Jest
  - Recommendations from https://medium.com/welldone-software/an-overview-of-javascript-testing-in-2018-f68950900bc3
  - Jest is a FB library used by FB for testing React
  - Jest site at https://jestjs.io/
  - Use ts-jest for integration with TypeScript
  - npm install --save-dev jest ts-jest @types/jest
  - Add jest section to package.json.
  - Add /jestTest
  - Add "test" script to package.son scripts section
  - npm test
  - Recent bug in jest... Security Exception regards localStorage.. add testUrl to jest section in package.config
  - Fix issue with invalid tsconfig.json. Now working using .ts tests. 


  





## Things to do
- Continue through webpack sections at https://webpack.js.org/guides/
  - TSLinting
  - Development: hot module replacement (DONE) with style-loader (DONE) etc.
  - Tree shaking, minification
  - Production setup
  - Code splitting
  - Lazy loading
  - Caching, cache busting, etc.
  - Progressive web app - runs offline
- Other Stuff (aside from Wedbpack):
  - React
    - This includes compiling .tsx... see wepack config, modules, rules, .ts, uncomment // plugins: ['react-hot-loader/babel'], 
  - React-Router
  - Redux
  - Redux Dev Tools
  - Saga (rather than thunks) for side effects
  - Maybe a UI library like Bootstrap or react-semantic-ui?
  - Authentication and Authorization... support Facebook login? React-router + Auth0
  - https
  - Backend JSON storage like Cloudfire
  - Deployment/rollout tool
  - Hosting
  - Actual character generator
    - Include a version field in data so can upgrade saved characters as versions change.
  - Tests
  - Server-side rendering?
  - Accessibility
  - Internationalisation
  - After March, downgrade awesome-typescript-loader to v4.0.0 and see if still works. (had to upgrade to 5.0.0-1 to patch hot reload bug with webpack 4)
  - After March, check if can eliminate mini-css-extract-plugin... may be natively supported by webpack 4 by then

## Things Done
- Continue through webpack sections at https://webpack.js.org/guides/
  - Output: HtmlWebpackPlugin to create bundles for endpoints (without fixed names) (DONE), clean-webpack-plugin (DONE)
  - Development: source maps (DONE for dev), watch mode with webpack-dev-server (DONE), hot module replacement (DONE) 
  - TypeScript (DONE... but need to upgrade to awesome-typescript-loader because ts-loader is slow)
  - Assets: SCSS / CSS (DONE), files/images (DONE), fonts (DONE), data (xml and csv) (DONE)
